The main difference between Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) is that UTC is a time standard
used globally as the official reference for civil time and time zones, while GMT is a time zone originally based on the mean
solar time at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, London. GMT is observed as a time zone in certain regions, especially in
parts of Europe and Africa.

UTC is based on precise atomic clock measurements combined with occasional leap seconds to keep it synchronized with Earth's
irregular rotation, while GMT is based on the Earth's solar time, specifically the average (mean) time of the sun's position
over the year at the Greenwich meridian. UTC uses a 24-hour system starting at midnight, while GMT was historically counted
from noon. Despite these technical differences, UTC and GMT show the same current time, and in practice, they are often used
interchangeably, but UTC is the more scientifically accurate and internationally recognized standard.[1][3][4][6][7]

[1](https://24timezones.com/gmt-vs-utc) [2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJ4AUevGQ7k)
[3](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/gmt-utc-time.html)
[4](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48942916/what-is-the-difference-between-utc-and-gmt)
[5](https://www.farmersalmanac.com/utc-time-and-gmt-time) [6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenwich_Mean_Time)
[7](https://www.coachingexpatriates.com/difference-between-utc-vs-gmt/)
[8](https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/9oshxp/eli5_what_is_utc_and_how_does_it_differ_from_gmt/)
[9](https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/aboututc.shtml) [10](https://www.fhs.swiss/eng/gmt-utc-tai.html)

UTC and GMT show the same current time, so in that sense, they are equal. However, they are not exactly the same concept. GMT
is a time zone based on the mean solar time at the Greenwich meridian, historically used in some countries, while UTC is a
time standard that serves as the global reference for time, based on precise atomic clocks and occasionally adjusted with
leap seconds to stay aligned with Earth's rotation. UTC is considered the official time standard globally, and GMT is now
often used as a synonym for UTC in casual or general use, but technically, UTC is the more precise and official standard.
Thus, while their time readings match, their definitions and uses differ.[1][2][3][7][8]

[1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenwich_Mean_Time) [2](https://24timezones.com/gmt-vs-utc)
[3](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/gmt-utc-time.html)
[4](https://www.reddit.com/r/amateurradio/comments/1h1sbex/whats_the_difference_between_gmt_utc_and/)
[5](https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/aboututc.shtml) [6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time)
[7](https://www.coachingexpatriates.com/difference-between-utc-vs-gmt/)
[8](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48942916/what-is-the-difference-between-utc-and-gmt)

No, Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) does not use or observe daylight saving time (summer time). It serves as a constant
frame of reference for time, and its time does not change with the seasons. Other time zones that reference UTC may adjust
their clocks for daylight saving time, but UTC itself remains fixed year-round without any changes.[1][2][3][8][9]

[1](https://www.worldtimeserver.com/learn/does-utc-observe-daylight-saving-time/)
[2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) [3](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/change/timezone/utc)
[4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daylight_saving_time) [5](https://welcome.ibb.edu.pl/miscellaneous/time-zone/)
[6](http://www.igik.edu.pl/en/a/Daylight-Saving-Time) [7](https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/aboututc.shtml)
[8](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/timezone/utc)
[9](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5495803/does-utc-observe-daylight-saving-time)
[10](<http://ww2010.atmos.uiuc.edu/(Gh)/guides/maps/utc/toutc.rxml>)

Yes, the official time in London is equal to UTC only during the winter months when the city observes Greenwich Mean Time
(GMT), which has a UTC offset of zero. During summer, London switches to British Summer Time (BST), which is GMT +1 hour,
meaning London time is UTC+1 then. This change to BST (daylight saving time) typically occurs from the last Sunday in March
until the last Sunday in October each year. So, in 2025, London time will be UTC only from October 26, 2025, until March 30,
2026, and UTC+1 during the summer period in between.[1][2][3][7]

[1](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/zone/uk/london?year=2025) [2](https://24timezones.com/London/time-zone)
[3](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/change/@2648109?year=2025) [4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Summer_Time)
[5](https://www.visitlondon.com/traveller-information/essential-information/when-do-the-clocks-change)
[6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenwich_Mean_Time)
[7](https://logwork.com/current-time-in-london-united-kingdom-city-of-london)
[8](https://www.zeitverschiebung.net/en/timezone/europe--london) [9](https://time.is/London)
[10](https://www.uel.ac.uk/blog/uk-clocks-change-2025-british-summer-time-here)
