To configure Samba under Ubuntu, follow these steps:

1. Install Samba: Open a terminal and run:

   ```
   sudo apt update
   sudo apt install samba
   ```

   This installs the Samba package on your system.

2. Create a Shared Directory: Create the directory you want to share, for example:

   ```
   sudo mkdir -p /srv/samba/shared
   ```

   Set suitable permissions:

   ```
   sudo chmod -R 0777 /srv/samba/shared
   ```

   This permission allows all users to read and write in the shared directory.

3. Configure Samba: Edit the Samba configuration file `/etc/samba/smb.conf` with:

   ```
   sudo nano /etc/samba/smb.conf
   ```

   Add a share definition at the end of the file:

   ```
   [shared]
   path = /srv/samba/shared
   writable = yes
   guest ok = yes
   read only = no
   force user = nobody
   ```

   This setting allows anyone to access the shared directory without a password.

4. Restart Samba service: Apply the changes by restarting the Samba service:

   ```
   sudo systemctl restart smbd
   ```

5. Access the shared directory from other machines by using the serverâ€™s IP address in the file explorer, such as:
   ```
   \\server-ip\shared
   ```
   Replace `server-ip` with the actual IP address of your Samba server.

This setup creates a basic, publicly accessible Samba share on Ubuntu. More secure configurations can be applied by managing
users, permissions, and specific access control in Samba.[1][3][5][6]

[1](https://www.zentyal.com/news/linux-samba-server/)
[2](https://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/1fslvru/i_need_help_to_create_a_samba_server_in_ubuntu/)
[3](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/ubuntu-samba) [4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y7esIzzkzSE)
[5](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/samba/file-server/)
[6](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-samba) [7](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gW4rWhurUs)
[8](https://www.dedicatedcore.com/blog/install-samba-ubuntu/)
[9](https://forum.linuxconfig.org/t/how-to-configure-samba-server-share-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux-linuxconfig-org/4048)

The smb and nmb services in Samba serve different but complementary roles:

- The smb service (controlled by smbd daemon) provides file sharing and printing services using the SMB protocol. It handles
  user authentication, resource locking, and data transfer to Windows clients and other SMB-enabled systems.

- The nmb service (controlled by nmbd daemon) handles NetBIOS name service requests. It is responsible for name resolution
  and browsing in SMB networks, allowing machines to discover each other by hostname in Windows Network Neighborhood-like
  environments using NetBIOS over IPv4.

In summary, smb/smbd handles the actual file and printer sharing services, while nmb/nmbd manages the network neighborhood
browsing and name resolution features in a Samba network setup. Both services typically come with the Samba package and are
essential for full SMB/CIFS functionality on a Linux Samba server.[1][2][3]

[1](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/8/samba/services_concept.html)
[2](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/5/html/deployment_guide/s1-samba-daemons)
[3](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/4/html/reference_guide/s1-samba-daemons)
[4](https://www.reddit.com/r/archlinux/comments/8fdcnh/psa_smbd_and_nmbd_have_been_renamed_to_smb_and/)
[5](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/using-samba-second/0596002564/re314.html)
[6](https://www.oreilly.com/openbook/samba/book/ch02_05.html)
[7](https://discuss.freedombox.org/t/nmbd-service-wont-start-samba-not-working/2752)
[8](https://dietpi.com/forum/t/samba-precisely-nmbd-slowing-down-boot-process-if-there-is-no-network/13761)

To change the name of a Linux computer in a network (its hostname), you can use one of the following common methods:

1. Using hostnamectl (recommended for modern systems with systemd):

   ```
   sudo hostnamectl set-hostname new-hostname
   ```

   Replace "new-hostname" with the desired computer name. This changes the hostname permanently.

2. Manually editing system files:

   - Edit `/etc/hostname` and replace the old hostname with the new one:
     ```
     sudo nano /etc/hostname
     ```
   - Then edit `/etc/hosts` and replace occurrences of the old hostname with the new one:
     ```
     sudo nano /etc/hosts
     ```
   - Save changes and reboot the system to apply.

3. Temporary hostname change (resets after reboot):
   ```
   sudo hostname new-hostname
   ```

After changing the hostname using any method, rebooting the system ensures the new name is fully applied across all network
services.

The hostname is the name your Linux computer uses to identify itself on a network, so changing it updates its network
identity.[1][2][4]

[1](https://cyberpanel.net/blog/linux-change-hostname) [2](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-change-hostname-command/)
[3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27n88N0j-P0) [4](https://www.hostinger.com/tutorials/linux-change-hostname)
[5](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/configure-hostname-linux)
[6](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14636473/linux-change-the-hostname-in-the-cli)
[7](https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/comments/1fxj4lj/how_to_change_my_hostname_without_breaking_stuff/)
[8](https://www.redhat.com/es/blog/configure-hostname-linux) [9](https://docs.oracle.com/en/learn/ol-hostname-locale/)

In Samba configuration:

- `[print$]` is a special hidden share used to store printer drivers and related files for clients. It is typically a
  read-only share, and clients access it to download necessary printer drivers. The trailing `$` makes it a hidden share from
  normal browsing.

- `[printers]` is a special share that automatically represents all printers defined on the Samba server. It is used to share
  printers over the network, allowing clients to send print jobs. The `[printers]` share is marked as printable, one usually
  sets `printable = yes` to indicate it's for printing purposes.

In short, `[print$]` holds printer driver files for client installation (hidden share) while `[printers]` allows actual
printer sharing and printing over the network.[1][3]

[1](https://www.oreilly.com/openbook/samba/book/ch07_01.html) [2](https://wiki.hpc.uo.edu.cu/doku.php?id=print_server)
[3](https://doc.opensuse.org/documentation/leap/reference/html/book-reference/cha-samba.html)
[4](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/samba-file-sharing)

To configure a Samba server on Ubuntu for anonymous (guest) access and for user/password authentication, here are the key
steps:

### For Anonymous Access:

1. Edit the Samba configuration file:
   ```bash
   sudo nano /etc/samba/smb.conf
   ```
2. Add a share definition for anonymous access, for example:
   ```
   [Anonymous]
   path = /samba/anonymous
   browsable = yes
   writable = yes
   guest ok = yes
   read only = no
   force user = nobody
   ```
3. Create the shared directory and set permissions:
   ```bash
   sudo mkdir -p /samba/anonymous
   sudo chmod -R 0775 /samba/anonymous
   sudo chown -R nobody:nogroup /samba/anonymous
   ```
4. Restart Samba:
   ```bash
   sudo service smbd restart
   ```
   With this setup, anyone on the network can access the anonymous share without needing a username or password.

### For User/Password Authentication:

1. Create or select a directory to share with authenticated access. For example:
   ```bash
   sudo mkdir -p /samba/secured
   sudo chown -R someuser:sambashare /samba/secured
   sudo chmod -R 2770 /samba/secured
   ```
2. Add a share section in `/etc/samba/smb.conf`:
   ```
   [secured]
   path = /samba/secured
   valid users = @smbgrp
   guest ok = no
   writable = yes
   browsable = yes
   ```
3. Add system users to a Samba group (e.g., sambashare), and create corresponding Samba users:
   ```bash
   sudo groupadd sambashare  # If not already exists
   sudo usermod -aG sambashare someuser
   sudo smbpasswd -a someuser
   sudo smbpasswd -e someuser
   ```
4. Restart Samba:
   ```bash
   sudo service smbd restart
   ```
   Users will need to enter their Samba username and password to access this share.

This configuration enables a mixed environment with both anonymous and secured Samba shares on Ubuntu. The anonymous share
allows guest access without credentials, while secured shares enforce login by username and password.

If more detailed explanations or examples are needed, this can be provided.

[1](https://kenfavors.com/code/configure-samba-file-sharing-in-ubuntu/)
[2](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-a-samba-share-for-a-small-organization-on-ubuntu-16-04)
[3](https://www.dedicatedcore.com/blog/install-samba-ubuntu/) [4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lYMMr9IM0Zk)
[5](https://www.reddit.com/r/debian/comments/1bpjrgf/anonymous_passwordless_samba_share/)
[6](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-samba)
[7](https://forum.linuxconfig.org/t/how-to-configure-samba-server-share-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux-linuxconfig-org/4048)
[8](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/samba/file-server/) [9](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gW4rWhurUs)

The difference between the comment characters "#" and ";" in Samba configuration files is that there is no functional
difference; both characters are equivalent for marking comment lines. In the Samba smb.conf file, either a hash mark (#) or a
semicolon (;) at the beginning of a line indicates that the line is a comment, and Samba will ignore that line. Both
characters can be used interchangeably for comments in the configuration file.[1]

[1](https://www.oreilly.com/openbook/samba/book/ch04_01.html)
[2](https://forums.freebsd.org/threads/character-sets-in-the-console-and-in-samba.14626/)
[3](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22738710/using-sed-to-find-and-replace-text-in-smb-conf-file)
[4](https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/comments/k77z74/samba_vs_special_character_at_folderfile_names/)
[5](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Samba)

In Samba configuration, the directive "map to guest = Bad User" means that Samba will map any connection attempt from a user
that does not exist on the Samba server to the guest account. This is helpful because Windows clients always send a username
when connecting, and if the specified user isn't found on the server, mapping them to the guest account allows access as a
guest rather than rejecting the connection.

This setting allows non-authenticated or unknown users to be treated as guests, which is often used for public or open shares
where authentication is not required. The guest account itself should be a valid user on the system (commonly "nobody" or
"guest") with appropriate permissions set on the shared resources.

In short, "map to guest = Bad User" instructs Samba to redirect access attempts by non-existent users to the guest user,
facilitating guest access without login failures due to unknown usernames.[1]

[1](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=112791) [2](https://dietpi.com/forum/t/guest-access-to-samba-shares/864)
[3](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/samba-windows-linux)
